1,350 hospitals in the US have the same federal CMS reporting obligations as Mayo Clinic.
No IT department. No analytics team. A tribal council policy that forbids patient data leaving the reservation.
This is one of them. Sage Mesa Critical Access Hospital, Window Rock, Arizona.
Gemma 4 runs on the Mac Mini under the desk. There's no internet connection right now.
Marlene is the RN, the quality officer, and the EHR admin. Tuesdays she runs the federal reports.
She types: "find the top three care gaps." Gemma 4 fans out three function calls. Four seconds later:
"Your sepsis bundle compliance is the lowest in your CMS region. Refresh the bundle education. Audit antibiotic timing."
Stanford-grade quality analytics. Four seconds. On a $400 box. Airplane mode on.
She has three weeks of handwritten patient experience surveys nobody has entered.
Gemma 4 vision sees the form locally, transcribes it, adds it to local FHIR. PHI egress: false. Signed.
Quarter-end. CMS reporting is due. Sovereignty Mode demands a tribal council co-signature key.
She pastes the key. Redaction sub-agent strips 142 PHI fields. Differential privacy noise applied.
The envelope is signed with a SHA-256 hash the hospital itself cannot retroactively forge.
CMS gets the aggregate. The patients get to stay anonymous. The tribal council gets a cryptographic receipt.
Frontier intelligence does not require a frontier datacenter.
With Gemma 4, the smallest hospital in America can do what only the largest could yesterday.
HealthPulse Edge. github.com/sgharlow/gemma-health.